# Trustless Sidechain CTL 
The Trustless Sidechain CTL is not production ready in its current form and use of it is entirely at your own risk as these repos are not maintained. 

You acknowledge and agree to have an adequate understanding of the risks associated with use of the Trustless Sidechain CTL and that all information and materials published, distributed or otherwise made available on Cardano Docs is provided for non-commercial, personal use, and testing purposes only. This includes test currency tokens which have no economic value and are provided only for the purpose of testing on the Trustless Sidechain CTL.

The Trustless Sidechain CTL is available on an ‘AS IS’ and ‘AS AVAILABLE’ basis, without any representations or warranties of any kind. All implied terms are excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. No party involved in, or having contributed to the development of, the Trustless Sidechain CTL including any of their affiliates, directors, employees, contractors, service providers or agents (the parties involved) accepts any responsibility or liability to you or any third parties in relation to any materials or information accessed via the Trustless Sidechain CTL.

You acknowledge and agree that the parties involved are not responsible for any damage to your computer systems, loss of data, or any other loss or damage resulting (directly or indirectly) from use of the Trustless Sidechain CTL.

Furthermore, the use of any third-party software tools or products (such as MetaMask, Truffle, etc.) is done at your own discretion and with the understanding that you will be subject to their terms and licenses. The parties involved are not responsible for the content or accuracy of any third-party resource or for any loss or damage of any sort resulting from the use of, or for any failure of, products or services provided at or from a third-party.